README.md, before:

Python Backend Server Demo Project
==================================

This project demoes how I would develop a Python backend server project.

Notable Things
--------------

Most decisions made are documented in Git commit messages. I suggest you to
follow through them in order to understand the project and to experience my
typical development workflow.

### Package management with poetry

Python Poetry is a modern take on package management. It is significantly
easier than using pip for example.

### Static type checking with mypy

Type checking is an important part of the development process. It makes the
software easier to work with in the long run and increases overall correctness.

### Linting with ruff

Ruff is a modern and fast linter that supports most rules and features of other
Python linters out of the box.

### Testing with pytest

Pytest is in my opinion the most powerful testing framework. Not only for Python
but it's better than any other framework I've seen for any language.

Requirements and Architecture
-----------------------------

1. A RESTful API with two endpoints:
    * `POST /measurements/:room_id` to store temperature measurements
    * `GET /measurements/:room_id/average/:duration` to retrieve an average of
      temperature measurements per room
2. A database to store temperature measurements
3. App is dockerized
4. A CI/CD pipeline is set up

The app is built using the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) framework.
It is a lightweight and fast REST API framework that offers many things such as
request validation and API docs out of the box.

Development
-----------

Run the app in development mode:
```
make dev
```

Run tests:
```
make test
```

Run checks:
```
make lint
make typecheck

# or both at the same time:
make check
```

### Development using Docker

Start the app in docker:
```
make dev-docker
```
This will run migrations and start the app in dev mode. It will automatically
restart whenever a file is changed.

Commit message:

Add notes about the database choice to the readme

README.md, after:

Python Backend Server Demo Project
==================================

This project demoes how I would develop a Python backend server project.

Notable Things
--------------

Most decisions made are documented in Git commit messages. I suggest you to
follow through them in order to understand the project and to experience my
typical development workflow.

### Package management with poetry

[Python Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) is a modern take on package
management. It is significantly easier than using pip for example.

### Static type checking with mypy

[mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) enables type checking for Python.
Type checking is an important part of the development process. It makes the
software easier to work with in the long run and increases overall correctness.

### Linting with ruff

[Ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) is a modern and fast linter that supports
most rules and features of other Python linters out of the box.

### Testing with pytest

[Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) is in my opinion the most powerful
testing framework. Not only for Python but it's better than any other framework
I've seen for any language.

Requirements and Architecture
-----------------------------

1. A RESTful API with two endpoints:
    * `POST /measurements/:room_id` to store temperature measurements
    * `GET /measurements/:room_id/average/:duration` to retrieve an average of
      temperature measurements per room
2. A database to store temperature measurements
3. App is dockerized
4. A CI/CD pipeline is set up

The app is built using the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) framework.
It is a lightweight and fast REST API framework that offers many things such as
request validation and API docs out of the box.

PostgreSQL is used as the database. It may not be the optimal for time series
data but one of the ideas of this project is to demonstrate how to abstract
the database so it can be swapped without having to change the whole app.
Database connection is managed with [asyncpg](https://github.com/MagicStack/asyncpg).
It is a simple and fast library that doesn't try to abstract the database away
and let's us do that instead.

Development
-----------

Run the app in development mode:
```
make dev
```

Run tests:
```
make test
```

Run checks:
```
make lint
make typecheck

# or both at the same time:
make check
```

### Development using Docker

Start the app in docker:
```
make dev-docker
```
This will run migrations and start the app in dev mode. It will automatically
restart whenever a file is changed.
